When the controller directly updates the view, we're bypassing the model.
Essentially, we're storing the model data directly on The View.
And from a fundamental standpoint, we're slipping out of MVC separation of concerns.
Let's iterate on this and bring a bit more sound principles to the code.
Instead, what we could do is when the user clicks the add button, the controller could translate those
UI values from the view into the model.
Let's do that now.
Let's see what we've done differently here.
We've updated each of these handlers to be a bit more conventional in the practices of MVCs.
Now, when we add, we take those view values and put them directly into the model and then in reset,
we're doing something a little bit redundant, but we're clearing out the view and then clearing out
the model.
It's not bad, but that redundancy we see there doesn't reach a goal of simplicity.
Now we've got some options here in order to create a better binding between the view and the model,
we could either go into the view and have the view listen directly to the model for read only operations.
That's a good best practice.
An alternative would be here in the controller to dispatch a command saying, Hey, view go reset yourself
or saying Hey, view the model has changed.
In the past.
Sample projects.
We've used commands at this level, but to try something new, let's go into The View and have it observed
directly to the model for any changes.
And inside the initialize we'll use the context and the model locator to get a reference to the calculator
model.
Best practices support that the view reads from the model, but it would be an overstep of the role
of the view for it to directly set any values here.
So all I'm doing is listening to the value changed on A, B, and the result as a shorthand.
I'm using what's called a lambda expression, and it's a nice quick way to observe an event in this
case and handle the consequence.
The observables on value changed passes the p previous value and see current value.
So any time one of these observable changes, I update the view to the current value with just those
few lines.
Now we have the view bound to the model using best practices.
Back here in the calculator controller, we return to our event handlers as they were before.
Now, because we've added the binding from the view directly to the model, the controller no longer
needs to manually set any values on the View so we can get rid of these lines and we can get rid of
this as well.
Let's go ahead and run the scene and see how it behaves.
Here we are in the running scene.
I'll input some values and hit reset looks good.
We do see that when it gets reset, it puts some zeros in these fields which aren't there initially.
It's a small detail, but we'll address that.
Now let's try the ad operation.
And the ad operation works well here in the calculator controller.
Let's reset initially before the user does any input inside initialize.
After doing the existing ad listeners, I'll mimic the consequence of the reset button being hit.
Let's run the scene and see the result.
Now, when we first run the app before doing any user input, we see those familiar zeros.
This is a great way to have a consistent look and feel before and after the user starts interacting.
The application is now complete.
We're able to input A, input B, add the results together and reset all the fields.
So far in this custom example, we've used the model view controller, we've observed events and gotten
our app to work well.
We haven't used any commands and in a small enough application, that's okay.
But I do want to demonstrate how a command could add value here.
I'll leave all the binding in place that we have now, but I'll replace these lines here with the command
so the view knows how to reset itself.
Let's start by calling the command.
We use the context and command manager to invoke a new command.
I'll call it the reset command.
Now let's create that class in its most basic form.
I'll duplicate the class template and place it in the proper location.
Here inside the controller folder, I've created a command folder and added our reset command.
So far I've given it a namespace and updated the class name from the template.
All we've got to do here is implement I command and let's jump back to the code where we use this back
in the calculator controller.
The code is looking good.
We're now invoking a command.
So who would need to listen to this?
Well, any concern could subscribe and listen to when the reset happens.
In our case, we'll go to The View, we'll listen for this command and we'll reset those three fields.
So here in the calculator view inside the initialize, we use the context and command manager to add
a command listener here.
Whenever the reset command gets called, this code executes and resets those fields.
Now, in this specific example, this is a bit problematic and redundant.
We already had the binding working, but I did want to show how to wire up a command just in case.
Let's run this example.
Here's everything running.
Here is the reset functionality that works well.
Here's the ad functionality that also works well.
So in this specific case, I'm going to remove the command before finishing up the project.
I've gone back into the controller and commented out that code and gone back into The View and commented
out that code and related code as well.
Let's run the demo.
Here we are.
Running the demo.
Do the ad operation.
Works great.
Do the reset.
Works great as well.
I'll include this calculator example in the code base so you can check it out as well.
For those of you who took the coding challenge assignment and completed this yourself before watching
the video, I hope you learned a lot by going through that activity.
Overall, the process that we used here is something that you can use on larger and VCs projects as
well.
You think first about what your requirements are, what the user experience will be, and then you break
that down into each of the concerns, model, view, controller and service.
Then think about which base functionality, if any, you need for the concerns.
Now, while this sample was quite small and required only a model view and controller for a simple one
hour example, you'll probably see for the typical project of one month or one year that you have many,
many views and many models and many controllers.
Even with a project of that scale, you would still follow these steps.
And the same time we've spent together here starting this project is how you would start a much larger
project as well.
Over time, you would see scaling up each of those concerns, perhaps having one view that gets a little
too large.
So you split it into two views.
You'll also have a long library of commands that you can use and reuse throughout your project.
Imagine next steps for this calculator.
Something you may want to do as an optional coding assignment would be to add, subtract functionality
or add unit testing to the project.
You could test the model, the view, the controller.
You could take the addition logic and separate it into its own class.
Something like my math system with a method of ADD and another method of subtract.
That would be a great way to scale up your learning from this sample and move forward.
That's it for the calculator Mini.
Thanks.